                   Microsoft(R) Debugging Tools for Windows(R)
                            Version 6.10 Release Notes
                                 August 2008

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contents

    Overview
    What's New
    Known Issues
    Programs
    Debugger Extensions
    Software Development Samples
    Documentation
    Redistributables
    More Information
    Feedback

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Overview

Debugging Tools for Windows contains tools to analyze and debug Windows,
Windows drivers, and applications.  It can analyze memory dump files or
perform live debugging.

The kernel debugger is KD.exe.  It can be installed and run on Windows XP and
later versions.  It can debug all the platforms listed below.

The user-mode debugger is CDB.exe.  It can be installed and used on Windows XP
and later versions.  It can be used to debug 32-bit X86 applications.

WinDbg.exe is the GUI version of the debugger.  It supports both user-mode
and kernel-mode debugging.  It can be installed and run on Windows XP and
later versions.  It can debug all the platforms listed below.

Supported platforms:

Windows 2000 (x86)
Windows XP (All CPU architectures)
Windows Server 2003 (All CPU architectures)
Windows Vista (All CPU architectures)
Windows 2008 Server (All CPU architectures)

Please be aware that while you may run the 32-bit version of the debugging
tools on an 64-bit installation, the inverse is not supported.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

What's New

This release of Debugging Tools for Windows contains many bug fixes and new
enhancements. The debuggers are stable and more reliable than previous 
releases and we recommend that you upgrade to this version.

*** 1394 Kernel Debugging Changes ***

This debugger has changes to improve 1394 debugging that require that the
1394 debug driver shipped with this release be installed on the host machine.
There are many improvements that have been made in the 1394 debug driver
including changes to allow all 1394 cards to work in target machines.
In addition, automatic reconnect to broken in targets was added for 1394.
This release of the debugger will not work well for 1394 kernel debugging if
it calls an old version of the driver from a previous release.  The debugger
will check whether the 1394 driver is new enough, and if not, will install
the latest driver when 1394 debugging is started.  There are 2 older versions
of the driver that will not get upgraded by this process.  They are named
1394dbg1.sys and 1394dbg2.sys.  They should be removed manually from the
system if required.  An explanation of how to do this is contained in the
known issues section.  It is extremely important that users do not attempt
to prevent the upgrade to the latest 1394 driver, as 1394 kernel debugging
may not work AT ALL if the latest driver is not installed.  Make sure if
you are prompted to reboot the machine during driver install, that you reboot
before attempting to do 1394 kernel debugging.  To prevent having to reboot
your host, make sure that all instances of the debugger that are doing 1394
kernel debugging are closed before running this release of the debugger.

Important changes in WinDbg 6.10:

  * CE6 dump processing now works.
  * NT4 no longer supported.
  * Enable installation of the USB debug driver on 64bit versions of Windows.
  * Install USBView.exe as part of the debugger package.
  * Enable use of any 1394 cards in target machines.
  * Improve 1394 debug driver reliability, responsiveness and performance.
  * Improve error messages for specific 1394 driver installation failures.
  * Prevent loss of 1394 debug connections after host sleep or hibernate.
  * Change the 1394 debug driver to write every sent packet to the target
    regardless of whether the previously sent packet was acknowleged.
  * Ensure the installed 1394 debug driver is new enough to work properly with
    the current release of the debugger.  (Update the 1394 driver to the
    version shipped in this debugger package.)
  * Automatically reconnect to broken in target machines when doing 1394
    kernel debugging.
  * Introduce new ".dump /mA ..." option to generate user-mode minidump. 
    The new behaiour is the same as ".dump /ma" except that it will ignore 
    inacessable memory read failure and continue minidump generation, 
    instead of bailing out immediately.
  * Add CHK/FRE information in user-mode minidump. Only dumps generated from 
    the new debugger will carry this information.
  * Include breakpoint exception in user-mode minidump when the dump is
    generated after a breakpoint hits. This enables debugger to show the
    current process/thread information when debugging a dump file.
  * Fix debugger hang when writing lsass dump files.
  * Fix debugging of WOW64 minidumps containing managed code.
  * Force the WOW64 extension to convert contexts as appropriate.
  * Don't sign extend addresses of 32 bit user mode processes in the 64 bit
    debugger.
  * Set 64bit debugger as the postmortem debugger for WOW64 applications.
  * Disable adding user-mode breakpoints in kd when KdIgnoreUmException is set.
  * Fix escape character ("\") parsing problem in the bl command.
  * Force bu breakpoint removal for unloaded modules.
  * Add automatic IPv6 detection to the "-remote tcp:..." remote protocol.
  * Fix .sleep to work when -ddefer is used.
  * Fix .tlist command
  * Performance improvements to windbg and other debuggers.
  * Notify users when workspace corruption is detected.
  * Fix the infinite recursion with corrupt workspaces in windbg. 
  * Report the correct processor family values in !cpuid for all processors.
  * Attempt to breakin only once per ctrl-c, ctrl-break instead of spinning
    in a loop on packet write failure.
  * Print the target computername in the debugger vertarget output when symbol
    information is available.
  * Tell debugger users how to break out of symbol loading, if it does not
    complete within a reasonable amount of time.
  * Display source server spew state when .srcnoisy is run. Also display the
    source server only output filter state. 
  * Workaround for Vista/DWM unpainted captions. 
  * Add host debugger time when remote kernel target boots and shuts down.
  * Symstore: don't truncate long file names when compressing files.
  * Symchk: Add recursive symbol search option ("/sr") to force SymChk to
    recursively search (non-symbol server) symbol paths for matching symbols.
  * Add support in symsrv for getting file pointers from an http store and
    using them as is without caching them to the default downstream store.
  * Agestore tool should not run on computers that do not update the
    last-access-time on files.
  * Many !analyze improvements.
  * Extensive debugger documentation updates.

    Additional details on some of these features can be found in the debugger
    documentation (debugger.chm).  To open this documentation, use 
    Start --> Debugging Tools for Windows --> Debugging Help.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Known Issues and Workarounds

    * Docked window frames do not paint properly when running as an elevated 
      user while the Aero theme is active on Vista.
    * Using the 32 bit debugger on a 64 bit OS to do 1394 kernel debugging
      will not work unless the latest 64 bit debugger is first installed and
      used to do 1394 debugging on the host.  That will ensure that the 
      64 bit debugger installs the most recent 1394 debug driver.  After that
      has been done, copy 1394kdbg.sys from windows\system32\drivers into
      windows\syswow64\drivers.  After this is done, you will be able to do
      1394 debugging with the 32 bit debugger as the driver date check made
      by the 32 bit version of the debugger will pass.  Note that the
      1394kdbg.sys file in syswow64\drivers is not actually loaded or used.
    * To prevent old 1394 debug drivers from loading on the box after the new
      debugger is installed, do the following:
      - Close all instances of debugger software running on the box.
      - Go to device manager and double click on 1394 Debugger Device.
      - Right click on each debug driver in the just opened list, and select
        uninstall.  In the dialog box that pops, check the Delete the driver
        software for this device check box, and click OK.  Some earlier OS
        may not give you the option of deleting the software and you may
        have to do it manually as described in the next bullet.
      - After uninstalling the debug devices, double click on IEEE 1394 Bus
        host controllers.
      - Right click on each 1394 controller in the just opened list, and
        select Uninstall.  Click OK in the dialog box, but DO NOT delete the
        driver software for these devices.  (You shouldn't get that option.)
      - Reboot the machine.  After the reboot, open device manager.  The 1394
        host controllers should be present as they will have been found by
        Plug and Play during boot, and reinstalled.  The debug drivers should
        NOT be present.  If they are, you will need to manually delete the
        driver software from the machine, and reboot.  Refer to the next
        bullet for a description of how to do this.
    * To manually remove 1394dbg1.sys and 1394dbg2.sys from the machine do the
      following:
      - Close all instances of debugger software running on the box.
      - Go to windows\system32\drivers and delete 1394dbg1.sys and 1394dbg2.sys
        if they are present in that directory.
      - Go to windows\inf and check if any of the oem*.inf files refer to
        either 1394dbg1.sys or 1394dbg2.sys.  You can do this by running
        findstr -ip "1394dbg1.sys" from a command prompt.  You should also run
        findstr -ip "1394dbg2.sys" to check for 1394dbg2.sys.  The names of
        files containing those strings will be highlighted in the output of
        these commands.
      - Delete each oemXXX.inf file and its corresponding oemXXX.pnf file that
        refers to the above drivers.  The oem files are numbered, so XXX will
        correspond to some number, typically between 0 and 15.  For example
        if the file oem4.inf contains the string 1394dbg1.sys then type
        del oem4.* from an elevated command prompt.  Make SURE you DO NOT
        delete any .inf files EXCEPT those containing references to either
        1394dbg1.sys or 1394dbg2.sys.
      - Check that all the old debug .inf files have been removed by rerunning
        the findstr commands above.  There should be no output from either
        search.
      - Use device manager to uninstall all 1394 debug drivers and all 1394
        host controllers as described in the previous bullet.
      - Reboot the machine.
      - After reboot, the 1394 controllers should be present, and the 1394
        debug devices should finally be gone.
      - Run the debugger and it will install the latest 1394 debug driver when
        1394 debugging is used.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Programs

This distribution includes the following debuggers:

    KD           - Command-line kernel debugger
    NTSD         - Command-line user-mode debugger
    CDB          - Command-line user-mode debugger (variant of NTSD)
    WinDbg       - GUI kernel debugger

I386KD is also provided in the package to support backwards compatibility. 
It has the same code-base as KD.

The Helpful Tools option is installed by default and includes these
debugger-related tools:

    AgeStore     - Removes old or unwanted files from the downstream store used
                   by a symbol server or source server
    DBH          - DbgHelp shell
    GFlags       - Global Flags Editor
    Breakin      - Utility to force a breakin in another process being debugged
    Remote       - Remote Command Line
    Kill         - Task Killing Utility
    List         - File List Utility
    LogViewer    - Display API logs created with the .logext extension from
                   the debugger
    RTList       - Remote Task List Viewer
    SymChk       - utility to check validity of symbol files, or download
                   symbols from a symbol server prior to a debugging session
    SymProxy     - ISAPI filter acting as an HTTP proxy for one or more
                   symbol servers
    SymStore     - Creates a symbol server for automatic symbol lookup
    ConvertStore - Modifies Symbol Server stores
    TList        - Task List Viewer
    UMDH         - Heap Analysis Tool
    PdbCopy      - Symbol file stripper
    DbEngPrx     - A repeater (small proxy server) used for remote debugging. DbgSrv is described in this documentation.
    DbgRpc       - A tool used to display Microsoft Remote Procedure Call (RPC) state information.
    DumpChk      - A tool used to validate a memory dump file.
    KDbgCtrl     - A tool that controls and configures the kernel debugging connection.
    KdSrv        - A KD connection server used for remote debugging.
    Logger       - A tool and an extension DLL that record the function calls and other actions of a program.
    UsbView      - Utility to view USB controllers and attached devices. Useful
                   for properly setting up USB kernel debugging.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Debugger Extensions

Debugger Extensions are DLLs that WinDbg, CDB, NTSD, and KD can use to provide
additional debugger commands.

The extensions that work for all versions of Windows reside in the "winext"
subdirectory, and include:

    uext.dll
    kext.dll
    ext.dll
    logexts.dll


The newest version-specific debugger extensions (which work on Windows XP,
Windows Server 2003, Windows Vista and Windows 2008 Server) reside
in the "winxp" subdirectory, and include:

    exts.dll
    kdexts.dll

The debugger has awareness of these subdirectories, and will not be able
to find them if these subdirectories are renamed or moved.

If a custom extension DLL is to be used, it should be placed in its own
directory.  The user can then set the debugger extension path variable so the
debugger can find the extension.  Debugger extensions can also be loaded in
the debugger using fully qualified path names.

All of the debuggers search for debugger extension DLLs in a series of 
directories.  For a list of these directories and the sequence in which they
are searched, open the documentation, choose the Index tab, type "extension",
and click on "default search order" in the listing under "extension".

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Software Development Samples


Header files, libraries and samples for debugger extensions are provided
in this package.  They are not installed by default.  The "SDK"
component of the package must be selected during the install to get the
samples installed.

Use the Build utility to compile and build these samples.  You must use
the version of the Build utility supplied by the latest version of the
Windows WDK or the Platform SDK.  These kits include several different
build environment windows; it is important that you use the "Windows
Server 2003 Build Environment" or "Windows Vista Build Environment"
windows -- even if you are building samples or extensions for use on a
different version of Windows.

Attempting to build the samples and headers in a "Windows 2000 Build
Environment" will cause compilation errors.  Building them in a "Windows
XP Build Environment" may succeed in some cases, but it is not
recommended.  The "Windows 2003 Server Build Environment" and "Windows
Vista Build Environment" windows are the ones that should be used in all
cases.

The header files and libs in this package should replace any existing
version of the header files or libs that are shipped with the Windows
WDK or the Platform SDK.  If you follow the instructions for using the
Build utility, which appear in the Windows WDK documentation, you can
set your include paths so that this is done automatically.

The samples will not compile if they are located in a directory path containing
spaces.  If you have installed Debugging Tools for Windows into a path with
spaces, you can work around this limitation by moving or copying the "sdk"
subdirectory to a directory path without spaces.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Documentation

For documentation on how to use these debuggers and related tools, see the
help file debugger.chm that is included with the tools.  This documentation
has been improved and expanded since the last release.

When Debugging Tools for Windows is installed, a shortcut to this documentation
can be found under Start --> Programs --> Debugging Tools for Windows -->
Debugging Help.

You may also choose to review the most current documentation on MSDN: 
	http://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc267445.aspx

Information on how to write debugger extensions is included in this same
documentation file.  If you plan to write debugger extensions, you should
perform a custom install of Debugging Tools for Windows and select all
available features.  This will ensure that you have all the necessary
extension headers, libraries, and samples.

The DbgHelp interface is documented in a separate documentation file
(dbghelp.chm).

A tutorial on kernel debugging, Kernel_Debugging_Tutorial.doc, is also included
in this installation.  This file is helpful if you are familiar with other
debugging tools and want to learn how to use WinDbg for kernel debugging.

You need to have Internet Explorer 5.0 or greater installed in order to use
the documentation properly.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Redistributables

Please read the license agreement during setup for legal information regarding
redistributable files.  If this is a retail release, the license agreement 
mentions that redist.txt gives a list of the files that are redistributable.  

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

More Information

For more information on debugging, see the Debugging Tools for Windows
web page, <http://www.microsoft.com/whdc/DevTools/Debugging>.

We encourage people to get the new debugger off the web "often", as
we do many updates, while keeping compatibility with current, and Beta 
versions of Windows.

Version 6.9 was the last debugger release that supports NT 4.0.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Feedback

We are interested in your feedback on the tools.  Please mail suggestions or 
bug reports to WinDbgfb@microsoft.com.  This is not a support alias, but your 
feedback will help us to plan future changes for these tools and will make 
them more useful to you in the future.

There is also a newsgroup moderated by Microsoft representatives and made up 
many users of these tools.  It is microsoft.public.windbg.  Posting questions
or comments here will often get you the information you need to be productive
with the debuggers.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
